### Database System Implementation

It is an assignment of course Database System Implementation (COP6726) taught in University of Florida. 


#### About the project

We are going to build some basic operations of database like SUM, DISTINCT, JOIN, FILTER etc on different kind of DB Files 
i.e. Heap and Sorted DB Files. The project is divided into several milestones.

1. Heap DB File - Implement records as heap file fashion, in which we keep on appending records at the 
end of file. We can load records from a file, insert single record and fetch records simply and on filter basis. 
     - More details about the assignment and implementation can be read [here](/resources/A1.pdf).
     - Code implementation can be found in [HeapDBFile.cc](HeapDBFile.cc).
     - GTests are written in [HeapFileGTests.cc](HeapFileGTests.cc)
     - Use driver [a1-test.cc](a1-test.cc) to run the code. 
     - In the project directory, execute below commands:
        
       ```     
            make clean
            make a1test.out
            ./a1test.out
       ```
        **Note** : We are using tpch-dbgen as sample data which can download from https://github.com/electrum/tpch-dbgen.git 
        and generated by `./dbgen -s 1`, which will generate 1 GB of data.
        Then update `tpch_dir` variable to location of generated data in [a1-test.cc](a1-test.cc).
   
1. BigQ Sorter - Implement an two pass multi-way merge sort (TPMMS), which will takes some data as input pipe, 
sort them using TPMMS and returns data through output pipe. It runs on a thread so it keep on sorting data without blocking the process.
    - More details about the assignment and implementation can be read [here](/resources/A2.pdf) (Assignment 2 Milestone 1).
    - Code implementation can be found in [BigQ.cc](BigQ.cc).
    - Use driver [a2-test.cc](a2-test.cc) to run the code. It will ask for the run length of TPMMS and sort order. 
    Sort order should be columns of the table which can be found in [catalog](catalog) for the respective table. 
    - In the project directory, execute below commands:
        ```
            make clean
            make a2test.out
            ./a2test.out
        ``` 
        **NOTE** : We will need heap files generated in the assignment, so we need to run the a1-test for the table which we want to sort.
        
1. Sorted DB File - Implement records as sorted file fashion. We use BigQ sorter implemented in assignment 2 for sorting.
We can load records from a file, insert single record and fetch records simply and on filter basis. 
We use binary search for filter if the filter order is similar to sort order of the file.  
    - More details about the assignment and implementation can be read [here](/resources/A2.pdf) (Assignment 2 Milestone 2).
    - Code implementation can be found in [SortedDBFile.cc](SortedDBFile.cc). 
    - Use driver [a2-2test.cc](a2-2test.cc) to run the code. It will ask for the run length of TPMMS and sort order. 
        Sort order should be columns of the table which can be found in [catalog](catalog) for the respective table.
    - In the project directory, execute below commands:
        ```
            make clean
            make a2-2test.out
            ./a2-2test.out
        ```
        **Note** : We are using tpch-dbgen as sample data which can download from https://github.com/electrum/tpch-dbgen.git 
                and generated by `./dbgen -s 1`, which will generate 1 GB of data.
                Then update `tpch_dir` variable to location of generated data in [test.h](a3-test.h).

1. Relational Operations - Implement different database operations like SELECT, SUM, DISTINCT, JOIN, FILTER etc.
    - More details about the assignment and implementation can be read [here](/resources/A3.pdf)
    - Code implementation can be found in [RelOp.cc](RelOp.cc).
    - Use driver [test.cc](a3-test.cc) to run the code. We need to pass different test code which should be in range of 1 to 8.
    - In the project directory, execute below commands:
        ```
            make clean
            make test.out
            ./test.out <1..8>
        ```  
        **NOTE** : We will need heap files generated in the assignment, so we need to run the a1-test for all the tables.